Active Directory Project Setup / Installation instructions:

1. Install Virtual Box (VirtualBox.org)

2. Download Windows 10 ISO image (https://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/software-download/windows10) 
	a. "Download Tool Now"
	b. "Create Installation Media (USB flash drive, DVD, or ISO file) for another PC
	c. ISO file (Save ISO file in preferred folder.)

3. Open Virtual Box and click "New" (to create a new machine)
	a. Give VM a name and a folder to save to
	b. Select Microsoft ISO image
	c. Check box "Skip Unattended Installation."
	d. Set base memory as 4gb or higher, 1 CPU. Click "Next".
	e. Set Virtual Hard Disk to 50gb. Click "Next".
	f. Click "Finish", then click the green arrow "Start."
	g. Select "I don't have a product key" when prompted when Windows is installing
	h. Select "Windows 10 Pro" when selecting desired OS prompt. Click "Next."
	i. Accept License TOS.
	J. Select "Custom Windows Install Only"
	k. Click "Next" after selecting what Drive to install on.
	l. Windows 10 should then begin installing in the background

4. Install Kali Linux (https://www.kali.org)
	a. Download pre-built VM Kali "VirtualBox 64 bit" virtual machine. (https://www.kali.org/get-kali/#kali-	virtual-machines)
	b. Download and Install "7-Zip", since Kali VirtualBox is a 7-Zip extension (https://www,7-zip.org)
	c. Kali default login credentials for initial install is "kali/kali"
	d. Navigate to the Kali installer, right click and select "7-Zip""Extract to the directory you chose."
	e. Double click on the "kali-linux.VBOX" file extension. Must be ".vox" extension. It should then be 	automatically installed into Virtual Box.
	f. Start kali in Virtual Box. Kali default login credentials for initial install is "kali/kali"

5. Install Windows Server
	a. Google and select "Windows Server 2022 | Microsoft Evaluation Center'
	b. Under the "Get started for free" section, click "Download the ISO"
	c. Fill in Registration information.
	d. Click on "ISO downloads 64 bit edition"
	e. In Virtual Box, click "New" to create a new machine.
	f. Give the machine a name and select the Windows Server ISO image you just downloaded. Leave the rest of 	the drop down menus as default. Click "Skip Unattended installation."
	g. Change Basic Memory to 4gb or faster, 1 CPU. Click "Next."
	h. Set Virtual Hard Disk to 50gb. Click "Finish."
	i. Click green "Start" button in Virtual Box to start Windows Server.
	j. Click "Install Now" when prompted.
	k. Select the "Windows Server 2022 Standard Evaluation (Desktop Experience)
	l. Click "Next" and accept the TOS, click "Next" again.
	m. Click "Custom Install"
	n. Select the "Drive" you want to install on.
	o. Installing will take about 10 minutes. When prompted, create and remember a password. Click "Finish."
	p. The "Insert" drop-down tab at the top, "keyboard", "Insert Ctrl Alt Del"
	q. Ensure installation has been completed successfully, then move on to step 6, installing Splunk.

6. Install Splunk Server
	a. Navigate to ubuntu.com/server
	b. Click on "Download Ubuntu Server" button
	c. Download the latest version (ex: Ubuntu 24.04 LTS)
	d. Navigate to Virtual Box, select "New' to create an new VM.
	e. Name the machine and select the file for the Ubuntu Server you just downloaded.
	f. Click "Skip Unattended Installation."
	g. Set Base Memory to 8gb or higher, 2 CPU's.
	h. We want the Splunk server to be beefy, because it will be ingesting data and performing searches on it.
	i. Set Virtual Hard Disk to 100gb. Click "Finish." Click the green "Start" arrow button.
	j. Select first option "Try or Install Ubuntu Server" on terminal looking style installation screen.
	h. Keep selecting the "Done" and "Continue" options to complete the installation process without modifying 	anything. Even the RED "Continue" box near the end.
	j. Create name, server name, username, and password. Click "Done."
	k. Select "Skip for Now" on Ubuntu Pro prompt
	l. Skip SSH option, click green "Done."
	m. Don't Select any of the dozens of additional options. Scroll down and select the green "Done."
	n. Ubuntu will begin installing. Installation is completed when the "Reboot Now" option appears. Select 	"Reboot Now".
	o. Error WILL appear that says "Failed unmounting /cdrom." Hit the "Enter" button to proceed.
	p. Once instaled, there will be a logon screen. Enter username and password you created.
	q. Enter command "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade -y" to update/upgrade everything.
	r. Hit "Enter" when presented with default "Which services should be restarted/" screen.
	s. 









































